# 02 Underscore.js

One of the benefits of underscore.js is it works with data we may have no ability to clean or edit. Often this data may come via an API (application programming interface).

The goal of this exercise is to gain practice working with a JSON-formatted data feed and isolating bits of information using underscore.js.


## Files included

- js/underscore.min.js
- js/zepto.min.js
- space.html
- weather.html

Within the `js` folder are two libraries: `underscore.min.js` and `zepto.min.js` (the 'min' means each of these have been minified).

Zepto.js is a lightweight JavaScript library which handles AJAX calls to servers. In this case, we are using it to retrieve a JSON file. Once the file is loaded into our browser, we can then use underscore.js to do the parsing.

Actual scripting will occur within the html files. The script content (and corresponding HTML/CSS) should be transferrable to your example portfolio.

Provide a short write-up about underscore.js, and a little bit about the embedded apps you will be creating below.


## People in Spaaaaaaace!

The first API we will practice with is `astros.js` - - a JSON feed listing the astronauts currently in space. (It's kind of boring because only ISS crew members are in space.)

Examine the [feed](http://api.open-notify.org/astros.json). You'll notice it is an object with the properties "number", "people" and "message". The "people" property contains an array of objects. Each object inside this array details the craft and astronaut name.

Use underscore.js to isolate the "people" key (and values). Create an unordered list in HTML which includes each person.

A template exists which calls the API using the zepto.js library. Include your code where the comment is.

*Bonus:* The data is bland. It's the *international* space station, but we have no idea where these individuals are from. Can you take the isolated data (astronaut names) and create a secondary data source (added in your script) which includes the country they are from? (*Hint:* You may have to create an array of countries and combine this with an array created from your data source.)


## Today's weather

The National Weather Service offers a [publicly accessible API](https://forecast-v3.weather.gov/documentation). The NWS uses this format to build their regional forecast pages.

We are able to find API data by appending latitude and longitude values to the URL `https://api.weather.gov/points/`. The latitude and longitude for Coral Gables ("West Miami") is 25.7476, -80.2595, so our URL would be: [https://api.weather.gov/points/25.7476,-80.2595](https://api.weather.gov/points/25.7476,-80.2595).

If you examine "properties", you'll see values for properties such as "forecast", "forecastHourly", etc. The values for these are URLs. If we visit one of these, you will find actual weather data.

Create a simple widget which displays the weather. You will use underscore.js to parse this data from the NWS JSON feed. (You are not obligated to use Coral Gables / West Miami. Feel free to find another location in the United States and get the latitude and longitude. You can do this via Google Maps.)

At a minimum your widget should include: the location, temperature (and units), short forecast.

*Bonus:* You may want to add more details to your weather 'app', such as wind speed and direction or a detailed forecast. Consider including the highest and lowest temperatures for the week (i.e. "This week's high temperature will be Wednesday night: 78°F").


## A note about APIs

The APIs we are using are publicly accessible. This means they do not require a 'key' -- a unique sequence of letters/numbers generated by the provider to access the API. Keys are used to unlock features and/or track usage.

If you use an API key in a script, do not make it publicly available. If you must (because front-end JavaScript does not provide a way to conceal keys), be sure to implement any protections available from the API provider (i.e. limiting access from a specific domain) and keep track of usage.

In most cases, overuse will lead to the API provider to cut off access. If the API is a per-use subscription, however, unauthorized use may run up a steep bill. Be careful.
